in 2001 that if I told them where the
Arabs were, I could grow all the poppy I
wanted. And I said, "What American told
you you could grow poppy?" And the
security guy says, "Meeting over." And
he grabs me by the arm and he physically
pulls me back to the jeep as soon as he
started talking about his family.
>> You got him.
>> I knew I had him.
That's what at at the CIA we call the
operational vulnerability. You always
have to worry that you didn't actually
recruit them. Have you ever heard of
Iwwayi Weii?
>> No.
>> He's one of the most
popular artists in the world right now.
He um he designed the Olympic Stadium in
Beijing.
>> I
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, here is there he is. I ai Oh, there
he is. We I
He's Japanese or
>> he's Chinese?
>> Chinese.
>> He was uh he was in prison for years
because he's a pro-democracy activist.
But um when I was in prison,
he did my portrait
out of Legos. I was one of 178 political
prisoners that he did. I'm next to
Martin Luther King of all people. And
now it's in the permanent collection of
the Smithsonian institution
>> right here. Right.
>> Yeah. Uhhuh.
>> Wow.
>> The Smithsonian.
>> So cool. You're in the Smithsonian.
>> Yeah, it's in the Smithsonian's
collection now. Have you ever heard of
um Andres Serrano?
>> No, I have not.
>> Have you ever heard of Piss Christ?
>> I have not.
>> It's a It's a beaker of urine and
there's an upside down crucifix in it.
>> You're too young. So it came out in the
1980s. Jesus Christ came out in the
1980s and it made it made Ronald Reagan
so angry that he cut off funding to the
National Endowment for the Arts and to
the
>> Why did it make him angry though?
>> Cuz it's a crucifix in piss.
>> Oh my god.
>> He flipped out.
>> Holy moly.
>> So, um,
>> and this this was done by an artist,
>> Andres Serrano.
>> And what's the what's the point of that?
I don't get it.
>> Um, it's like the absurdity of religion.
>> Oh my god. Right. So,
all it did was it made Andress even more
famous.
>> Yeah. I would cut the funding, too.
>> Oh, listen. The Republican party
>> was absolutely furious. But he did my
portrait, too.
>> It's in a series of pictures from
torture chambers around the world, and
it's it's in the tape modern.
>> Wow.
>> In London. Isn't that hilarious? And
it's next to like this uh
>> a torturer
>> from the US military.
>> Wow. Hold on. This this is this is not a
photograph.
>> It's a photograph.
>> Oh, it's a photograph. Okay.
>> Because there are some some realist
paint hyper. Yeah. They paint just just
like this.
>> I was younger and fatter,
but yeah, it's in the it's in the tape
modern of all things.
>> That's incredible. My girlfriend and I
went to London in March and we went to
Tape Modern to see it. She's like, "Show
off.
>> Did you
I would do the same.
>> I wanted to see it for myself. You know,
I've only seen pictures of it."
>> Oh, you've never seen it in real life?
Oh, then what's so sh up about that?
There's not nothing wrong with that.
Yeah.
>> Oh, man.
>> Thank you so much for coming.
>> It's my pleasure. I'm a massive fan. I
always think to myself, if I had a
second career, I'd be a spy or something
like this.
>> There you go.
>> You know the
>> You're still young enough.
>> Well, I don't I don't think they would
accept me. I'm 37.
>> Ah, you just you missed it by a year.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But can you tell me what
what what made you think I mean I know I
read your story. I know you were in
college. uh professor recruited to you
who recruited you and most of the time I
think that's the way
>> you know people get recruited
>> is through through college right
>> until yes currently today until 1993
when they passed the Equal Employment
Opportunity Act they could just say hey
don't tell anybody CIA you want it you
want in
>> and then you know you have to pass the
test of course but then you're in can't
do that since 93 but they found a way
around it recently
Um,
until just a few years ago, you had to
go to www.cia.gov
and click apply. Not sexy at all. Not
worthy of a story.
>> But what they do now is they've got this
program called the scholar and residence
program.
>> So, let's say you're from, you know,
Pittsburgh
and you're going to retire in three
years. They say, "Listen, instead of
retiring, why don't you move to
Pittsburgh, we'll get you a a
professorship at the University of
Pittsburgh.
>> You teach a class in, you know, the
history of
KGB operations in Armenia and um
and uh if you see anybody on the QT, let
us know and we'll reach out to them."
So, that's the way they do it. Now they
have professors all over America at
every major university and they're like
CIA officer scholar and residence. So
everybody knows you're CIA. They they're
still doing what they have always done
but now it's out in the open instead of
a secret.
>> Do you know the the uni bomber story
about
>> about MK Ultra?
>> Yeah. About this professor?
>> Yeah. Did they do they do something like
that until today where
>> they did that until 1975,
but we're we like have to take their
word for it that they're not doing that
anymore. We don't know.
>> Yeah.
>> In your opinion,
>> we probably are doing something like
that.
>> And I mean, back then it was MK Ultra.
What would they do now? What kind of
programs in your opinion?
>> Oh, honestly, anything their hearts
desired. All they have to do is write a
letter to the uh chairman and vice
chairman of the two oversight
committees. They can do anything they
want.
>> They just rubber stamp it and they said,
"Okay, go do whatever you want."
>> This is a big beef that I have with the
oversight committees is that they don't
oversee anything. They're just
cheerleaders for the CIA. Back in the
70s, the oversight committees, well,
they didn't become the oversight
committees until 1976, but the church
committee and the Pike Committee in the
House almost dismantled the CIA because
it was a rogue organization. It was
murdering heads of state. It was
overthrowing governments. It was
carrying out secret wars. And then
Congress is like, "Well, wait a minute.
We never said you could do any of that
stuff, you know, with these special
assassination devices, these guns the
likes of which nobody had ever seen
before that they just invented, you
know, for the purpose of carrying out
assassinations.
And so they created the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence and the House
Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence that were supposed to
oversee the day-to-day functioning of
the CIA. That was great until about 1986
and then they just fell back to where
they always were and they're like,
"Yeah, yeah, just do anything you want.
Anything you want?"
>> You were an adviser for the Senate
oversight, correct?
>> For the Senate uh foreign relations
committee. Yeah. Under John Kerry.
>> Did the CIA somewhat lie under that?
>> Oh my god. Yes.
>> I had nothing but trouble with the CIA
when I was at the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. I I told this story
to a reporter just yesterday. Um
in 2008 when Barack Obama was running
for president,
a reporter asked him about something
called the Dash Deilele massacre. This
took place on
December the 1st, 2001 in Mazeri Sharif,
northern Afghanistan. So on November
30th and December 1st, 2001,
2,000 Taliban soldiers just gave up on
Mas. They just gave up to the Northern
Alliance under General Abdul Rashid
Dstam. Dstam is a monster. He continues
to be a monster.
>> He's He's still alive today.
>> Oh yeah. And now he's allied with the
Taliban. He was allied with the Soviets
and then with the Taliban and then with
the Northern Alliance and then with the
Americans and then with the Taliban
again. He's a he's a political
>> I see. And so
he's also a murderous son of a gun. So
Dostam called American forces and said,
"We have 2,000 prisoners. We can't hold
them. What should we do with them?" And
the CIA told Doam to put them on trucks,
take them out to the desert, and hold
them there until we could divide them up
into smaller groups and then send them
to prisons around the country. because
there's no prison in all of Afghanistan
in 2001 that's big enough to hold 2,000
people overnight. Maybe you send some to
to Pakistan, you know, whatever.
>> So,
they called it the box up. They put all
2,000 men, they crammed them into
containers that were on the back of
trucks.
There was no food, there was no water,
and most importantly, there was no air.
And when the prisoners started beating
on the inside of the containers that
they couldn't breathe, Dostam's forces
just shot the trucks and said, "Now you
have air holes." Killed an untold
number.
>> They trucked them out to the desert. It
took about a day. And according to one
of the 14 survivors
>> out of 2,000.
>> Mhm. When they opened the containers,
the bodies fell out like sardines from a
can.
>> Wow.
>> So
Obama said
when he was candidate Obama, we need to
investigate this and get to the bottom.
Was the US involved or was this just an
unfortunate incident in the fog of war
and blah blah blah?
And then he as soon as he gets elected,
he's like, "Yeah, we don't we don't need
to investigate that. No, no, no. We're
not gonna we're not going to talk about
that anymore. So, I'm on the job at the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee for a
couple of months and I get a call from a
very prominent, very important human
rights um activist who knows about these
things, not just some nut, you know,
from the street. This is like a serious
guy.
>> Are you able to name the activist? I he
asked me not to expose him,
>> but he calls me and he says, "Um, I have
some new information, very important
information that you're going to need to
hear, but I think we shouldn't meet in
public." I said, "Okay, where do you
want to meet?" He said, "There's an
empty classroom at John's Hopkins
University. Let's meet there at 2
o'clock." I said, "Great." I go over to
John's Hopkins. The lights are off and
everything. I get into the building, go
to the go to the classroom, and he's
there. He's waiting for me. And he said,
"I know that you know all about Dashi
Leyle." And I said, "I do. I've written
about it." And he said, "I have a new
witness who's just come forward. He's 20
years old, which means he was 12 when
Dash Lee took place."
He said that he was hiding behind a rock
when they opened the trucks and the
bodies all fell out.
>> Wow.
>> And I said, "Okay, so what's the new
information?" He said, "The new
information is that there were two men
standing there wearing blue jeans and
black t-shirts and speaking English."
>> CIA,
>> who who else? And this is what I I said
to him. Well, who else could possibly be
in the middle of the Afghan desert on
December the 1st or 2nd, 2001, wearing
black t-shirts and jeans and speaking
English.
So I said, I'm going to write to the CIA
and I'm going to put him on the spot. So
I get back to the office. I write a
letter to the CIA asking for
clarification. We've developed this new
information. We want to know what the
truth is. Was the CIA on site when
>> the the trucks were opened? So I gave it
to Carrie. Carrie signed it. Sent it to
the CIA. Six weeks pass and a colleague
of mine happened to come into my office
and he said, "Oh, hey, um, the agency
responded to your letter." I said, "I
just checked my mail an hour ago. I
didn't see any letter from the agency."
He said, "Oh, they classified it as top
secret. It's downstairs in the vault."
At the time, I only had a secret
clearance, and the letter that I sent to
them was unclassified.
I said, "Well, what's it say?" And he
says, "It says," go yourself."
And I said, 'Okay, that's how they want
to play it. All right, that's fine. So,
I go over to Carrie's office and I said,
"Look, this is a cover up. I'm 100% sure
the CIA was involved in the Dash Dashley
massacre and now they won't answer your
questions." I said, "You signed that
letter. My name wasn't on that letter."
M
>> and he said, "Yeah, I've been thinking
about this and I think we should
probably just drop this."
>> Typical politician.
>> Typical John Kerry. Because he never
ever ever
wanted to do anything that could
possibly jeopardize his chances of
becoming Secretary of State.
>> That's all he cared about. It's what he
lived for.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. So, you know, it's funny going
back a few months to January of 2009, he
called me out of the blue and he said,
"I'm going to be the chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and
I'm going to reinstitute the committee's
investigative function." They stopped
investigations in 1972.
He said, "With your reputation as a
whistleblower, I want you to come here
and head investigations and I want you
to go hard." And I said, 'Great, I'm
your guy.' So, we shook hands. I started
working two weeks later.
And every time I got close to something,
he'd say, "Yeah, you're going to you're
going to kill this investigation."
>> He he told you every single time.
>> Personally, and I'll give you another
example.
>> I said to a colleague of mine, "I'm
gonna I think I'm going to go to uh
Afghanistan next week. I want to I want
to do a study on the heroin poppy crop.
Right. As recently as the late 1970s,
Afghanistan was a net food exporter.
>> They grew so much food they were
exporting it to Pakistan. I don't know
if you've ever been to Afghanistan, but
the entire country is just like a giant
sandbox. And then there are these rivers
that run through it. And then on the
banks of the rivers, it's completely
green. They were able to grow so much
food. They could feed every Afghan and
export it to Pakistan. It's incredible.
Now, or in 2009,
for as far as the eye can see, nothing
but heroin poppy
>> and they had to import almost 100% of
their food. Right? People's children
don't have shoes. They don't have enough
to eat. But man, they've got 93% of the
world's heroin. Can you imagine that?
>> And was this intentional? Was this told
by a government to
>> It's intentional.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Now, keep in mind that the Taliban
banned the the cultivation of heroin
poppy.
>> So, in 2000,
Afghanistan accounted for 0% of the
world's heroin.
>> This is in 2000.
>> This is in 2009. Is it 2009? 200 2009
93%
>> of the world heroin
>> of all the heroin in the world.
>> Wow.
>> So
I fly out to um
Kabell
and
there was a helicopter waiting for me
and took me to Bram. This was the only
time in my entire career that I ever
pulled rank on somebody.
Um, they said,
"Listen, we're not we're not going to
take you to the poppy fields. It's too
dangerous." And I said, "No, you you are
going to take me." No, it's
>> Who are you talking to?
>> To the military.
No, it's too dangerous. And I said,
"Listen, with all due respect, and I
hate to do this. It's not my nature, but
being a senior staff member on a on a
congressional oversight committee, I
have Brigadier Brigadier General
status. So I'm ordering you to fly me to
Kandahar and then to Lashkar and then
back to Bram.
So they did it. We go to Kandahar
and it was just a day of meetings
um in in the the base there and I met uh
you know the Afghans. They're all liars
and criminals and you know narco
traffickers. And then we flew to
Lashgarat to something called the PRT,
the provisional reconstruction.
I forget what T stands for. It's a state
department um function where they they
put you in the most isolated places in a
country and then you work with the
locals to dig water wells, put up a
windmill. Yeah. So we fly in and and I
got lucky. I knew I was going to get
lucky because the head of the PRT and
Lash Gar was a friend of mine from the
State Department.
>> So he said, "What do you want to do?"
And I said, "I'm getting real push back
from these guys. They don't want to do
any of this. But what I want to do is
just get in a jeep.
>> Can you tell me why they didn't want to
take you?"
>> Cuz I was asking questions that made
them very uncomfortable.
>> But why were they getting uncomfortable?
The military.
>> Who's protecting the heroin fields?
>> Got it. That's an answer I wanted to
hear from you. Yeah. I mean, I knew, but
I want
>> I mean, listen, I don't like the Taliban
any more than you do.
>> Yeah.
>> But there was zero heroin under the
Taliban, and there's 93% heroin under
the American government.
>> What you tell me is that under the US
government protection,
world's 93% of heroin was being
overlooked by by us, the US military.
>> It was being encouraged by us.
>> Overlooked, encouraged to be distributed
and to beh to be spread. That's the rub.
So, that's what I'm getting to. I said,
"I want to go out into the fields. I
want to talk to a poppy farmer." He
said, "Let's go." We had a couple of of
jeeps. We had security. We had a
translator. They I don't speak um um
Pashtu. So, we go out into the fields,
and I mean, as far as your eyes can
possibly see, it's just an ocean of
heroin poppy.
So sure enough, we see a puppy farmer
>> and we go up to him. Salamu allayikum
and we get out and he's like, "Who are
you?" So I said, "I'm I'm from the
Congress in Washington."
And uh I want to talk to you about the
poppy. He's like, "Okay, what about the
poppy?" And I I asked a very stupid
question. It wasn't stupid, it was
naive. I said, 'Wh would you grow poppy
when you can grow vegetables with two
growing seasons like tomatoes or onions
or pomegranates? You can you can
cultivate them and then and then you
know
>> export them
>> and reap them twice in a in a year and
export them. And he goes like this. He
goes,
"The Americans told me in 2001 that if I
told them where the Arabs were, I could
grow all the poppy I wanted." And I
said, "What American told you you could
grow poppy?" And the security guy says,
"Meeting over." And he grabs me by the
arm and he physically pulls me back to
the jeep.
>> You know, while he's telling the story,
I feel like it's a movie. I swear to
God.
>> But none of the movies in my stories
have good endings. Yeah.
>> The good guy always gets screwed in my
stories.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we go back to the PRT. Oh, it's too
dangerous. There's a threat on your
There was no threat. Nobody knew we were
coming. We get back on the helicopter,
fly all the way back to Bagram. The next
day, I go back to uh Kabell, fly to
Dubai, and then from Dubai to um to
Washington.
So, I I went to see Carrie the day after
I got back. And I said, "Listen, it's a
bad situation out there. 93% of the
world's heroin." He's like, "My god, I
didn't even know it was that bad. It's
incredible. It's blah, you know, blah
blah blah."
So, I write this paper and I point the
finger right at the CIA and the US
military.
And before I gave it to Carrie,
I sent it to a friend of mine at DEA. I
had these two friends who worked at at a
secret DEA facility way out in the
sticks, way out in in rural Virginia.
You'd never have any idea. It was a
government office.
I said, "Read this. Let me think what
let me know what you think." So he calls
me back and he says, "Buddy, you know
you're never going to get this
published, right?" And I said, "Why?"
I said, "I'm the chief investigator."
And he says, "Look, Afghanistan produces
93% of the world's heroin." Right? I
said, he said, "All of that heroin goes
to Iran and Russia, and we want them to
be addicted to heroin."
>> It weakens their societies. It weakens
their cultures. It makes them easier to
beat.
>> And this is coming from We have to fight
them.
>> DEA.
>> Yeah. The DEA senior officer.
>> Wow. And sure enough, Carrie says, "You
know, on second thought, I don't think
it really does any good for us to to
publish this paper. It's just it's angry
and it points the finger and I think we
should probably just kill it."
>> But you're telling me no heroin came to
the United States from Afghanistan?
>> Our heroin comes from Ecuador and
Mexico,
>> South Latin America. Got it.
>> Yeah. It's just too hard to get it from
Afghanistan all the way to the United
States when it can just come right up
through Mexico. Got it.
>> But then make a make a comparison here.
Why won't the Chinese stop the flow of
fentinel to the United States? I'll give
you one guess. Because it weakens our
society and it makes us easier to beat
if we have to fight them in a war.
>> Do you know, speaking of weakening the
society, do you know that uh KGB agent
who defected in the 1980s who was a head
psychologist? I forget his name.
>> Yeah. In fact, I went to his grave. He's
buried at uh at Rock Creek Cemetery in
Washington.
>> Uh his name escapes me right now.
>> Uh I can we can Can you Tom, can you
Google KGB agent defected to United
States like head psychologist? Oh, there
there he is. Uh Yuri Bezmanov.
>> That's him.
>> Yuri Bezmanov. There you go.
>> That was fast, Tom.
>> Yeah. So, I I'm sure you've seen his his
videos.
>> Yeah. and how he speaks about that it
takes 20 to 30 years
>> for the KGB to work on you know the
minds of Americans to shift their
ideology to shift the way they think and
the entire purpose of that is to weaken
society you know and he speaks about
liberalism and how it's wonderful and
how that you know family values have to
be diluted and you know the and and so
on and so forth you know religion
shouldn't be included in in American
household holes or in schools
>> and over the long term they're
succeeding
>> and that's exactly what kind of is
happening right now that right I mean if
you think about it a lot of people are
fighting against that and now you're
telling me that you know the the
Americans are doing the exact same thing
no different or the Chinese are doing
the exact same thing to the US right now
with fentinol right
>> and I was thinking that back you know
during the cold war yes you know the the
Russians were the largest adversary But
right now
>> they sure were.
>> It's the Chinese, right?
>> It's the Chinese.
>> And uh I was reading that in the past
10-15 years, we had more Chinese
national double agents arrested than any
other uh uh national from any country.
One of the biggest intelligence threats
to the United States, and this is not
new, this has been decades, 80 years, um
is the threat of counter intelligence.
you know, if you if you recruit a
Russian, a Chinese, a Cuban, an Iranian,
a North Korean, whoever,
um, you always have to worry that you
didn't actually recruit them. They
allowed you to recruit them so that they
could be double agents and report back
to their home services.
>> Well, I have a question for you then.
Let's go back to 1990 when you you were
just joining the CIA
>> world's one of the famous stories, Alra
Games.
He he was a double agent from
>> Oh, Aldrick Ames. Oh, yeah. That was a
little bit later. Yeah. Yeah. He was
caught in uh what 93 94. Yes. Yes. Yeah.
Major traitor.
>> Were you Were you aware while you were
in the CIA about that story?
>> Absolutely not.
>> Nobody was. There is literally nothing
more compartmentalized than counter
inelligence operations. They're the most
highly classified, highly
compartmentalized operations that exist.
And then after that, Richard uh Hans
Hans FBI Hanser Hansen
>> hit close to home. I had a a a great
friend um who was one of the mole
hunters at the CIA. Uh Brian Kelly.
Brian Brian is dead now. Um
Hansen was the chief mole hunter at the
FBI, but he was the mole.
>> He was the mole. Yeah. So what he did
was
it it's complicated.
Our our
our sources inside Russia began dying,
right? They'd get arrested and then they
would start dying. So we figured there's
a mole. So they started um
>> this is in the 2000s.
>> No, no, this is in the 90s.
>> 90s. Okay. So they started the
investigation and they were able to
figure out that it was Alder James, Rick
Ames.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Okay.
>> So they arrest Ames
and he gets life without parole. One of
the worst traders of the second half of
the 20th century.
And then
our sources keep dying.
There's got to be another mole, a second
one.
And so Hansen and the FBI began the
investigation.
>> Well, the chief mole hunter at the CIA
was Brian Kelly.
>> Mhm.
>> And so Hansen
directed his investigation at Brian and
said, "That's the mole."
>> Wow.
>> It's Brian Kelly. Well, the CIA is going
to believe the chief mole hunter of the
FBI, right? They're supposed to be the
best in the world. Why wouldn't they
believe their own?
>> They would never, especially the FBI,
would never believe that one of their
own was a traitor.
>> No. No. Why wouldn't the CIA Why would
the CIA believe that one of their own is
the mole instead?
>> Because one just was a minute ago with
Aldred James.
>> I see.
>> So they were like, "Oh my god, you know,
something terrible is happening at the
CIA."
What they did is they bugged Brian's
office inside the CIA, but he wasn't
saying anything because he wasn't the
mall.
>> Yeah.
>> Then they suspended him without pay and
they told him um that he couldn't leave
his house. He was like under house
arrest.
>> But he does he have a clue what's going
on
>> now? Now he's like they think I'm the
mole.
>> Okay.
>> He's hunting the mole.
>> Yeah.
>> And now they say, "Nope, Brian's the
mole."
They go to Oregon.
Uh, a CIA security officer and an FBI
agent go to Oregon. Brian's daughter was
working at a at a nursing home at the
time. And they told her, "If you give us
the information on your father, we won't
execute him." She's like, "My father's
innocent." Well, we're going to have to
execute him then
>> if you won't cooperate.
>> But that's a total farce.
>> It was all Well, no. No. I mean, they
fully intended to uh well, if they
could, if not, it would be life without
parole like they did with Ames, but they
were serious.
And so, um,
this went on for a year
until
there was an incident at the FBI where
they had placed a recording device at a
dead drop site in Vienna, Virginia,
>> underneath a bridge, a little foot
bridge.
And
the drop was made and then the mole did
the pickup.
So they were like, "Brian Kelly, he went
and made the pickup."
But they had recorded it all. So they
went and retrieved the tape and they
took it back to FBI headquarters and
they were all gathered around the table
with a recorder
>> to see who it is
>> and they pressed play and it was their
boss, Hansen.
>> Wow. But this this is later on already
in the late late 2000 no well 2007
>> 200 yeah 2006 2007 something like that
>> he got he got arrested in 2008 and
actually he
>> Okay so then this would have been 2007
>> yeah I think I think he he retired and
then they arrested him
>> who Brian
>> no yeah Richard
>> or Hansen or Hansen
>> no I don't I don't think he had retired
>> I think he was just about
>> No you know what it was it wasn't
retired they had transferred him out.
>> Yeah.
>> And he was like he was going to retire
because he said for them to transfer him
out like that to a lesser job, they were
on to him.
>> Oh,
>> yeah. So,
he had an assistant
who wasn't really his assistant,
>> Hansen.
>> Yeah. Um I think his name was O'Neal. Um
Eric O'Neal. We're we're connected on
LinkedIn. So Eric O'Neal was actually
there to spy on Hansen.
>> Whoa.
>> To see if there were any slip ups that
would indicate that he was the mole.
>> Eric was also an FBI agent.
>> He was an FBI agent. He was an FBI
analyst.
>> And um
there's a great movie that was made
about it. I I don't remember the name.
>> About Hansen.
>> Yeah. About the whole case. The whole
Hansen case. Eric O'Neal is a a hero in
this in this movie.
>> Breach. That's it.
>> Breach. Okay.
>> Breach. So, um, Eric O'Neal, the the
stress was so was so awful in this case
that he quit the FBI after
>> Eric.
>> Yeah. After Hansen was arrested.
>> Wow.
>> Interestingly enough, um,
uh,
Hansen hired my attorney to represent
him and, um, I mean, they they had him
dead to rights. There was he had no
chance to ever win. and he ended up
taking a plea and the only thing he got
in exchange for the plea was that his
wife could have his pension.
>> That was it. He died a year ago or two
years ago at the um at the Supermax ADX
Florence. Yeah. He never saw the light
of day. But there's a postcript to the
story to make it even worse.
So Hansen's been caught and Ames has
been caught and what's the idiot's name
from the counterterrorism center who
just got out of prison two years ago. So
>> when did he get uh arrested?
>> Uh 200
>> Oh, this guy
>> eight.
>> Oh, so this is fairly recent. Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> He just got out a year or two ago.
>> So I assume he didn't uh give too many
secrets if he got out.
>> Well, he did. He did 27 years of a 31
and a half year sentence. But to make it
worse, this
um he was a senior officer in the
counterterrorism center when I worked
there.
>> Mhm.
>> And um
when Ames got arrested and he said this
during his trial, his case, he said when
Ames got arrested, he thought, "Hey, the
KGB probably needs another mole. I'm
going to volunteer."
>> No way.
>> Uh-huh. He was the station chief in
Singapore. And so he just found the KGB
station chief and said, "Hey, listen.
You want to recruit me? I want this much
money and I want, you know, X, Y, and Z
and diamonds." And
>> James was trying to keep keep his wife
happy.
>> Yeah.
>> Who did he want to keep happy?
>> He was divorced a couple of times. He's
paying a shitload of money in alimony.
He did it for the money. For himself.
Just for the money.
>> Got it.
>> And he got caught. but not before he had
outed hundreds of undercover CIA
officers who then had to be brought in
from the cult because they couldn't
serve in Russia anymore. So, um
they caught him and
they sentenced him to 31 years and 7
months in prison. So, what does this
idiot do? He calls his even stupider son
and says, "Listen, here's this number. I
want you to call this number. this is
the KGB.
>> And tell them that I'm going to give you
information and you're going to give it
to them and I want them to put it into a
secret account so when I get out of
prison I can still be rich.
>> Wow.
>> And of course the kid just like, you
know, walks right up to the Russian
embassy in Washington and the FBI grabs
him.
>> Yeah. Cuz like the Russian embassy is
completely surrounded by FBI.
>> I don't understand. How can they be so
so naive?
>> I know, right?
>> Being a CIA. You spent 20 years in the
CIA and you're that stupid.
>> Yeah. I mean,
>> you deserve to get caught just for
stupidity.
>> So, um,
>> even Aldrick Ames, you know, since he
started, you know, making all that
money, he started, he bought a new car,
he bought a new house, he was going on
expensive vacation,
>> Jaguar, I'm you know what I paid for my
car? I still remember what I paid for.
It was the first car I ever bought brand
new. I treated myself to a Volkswagen
Fox the week before I started working at
the agency. I paid $7,200 for it. It
didn't even have a radio. I had to buy a
radio. There's my car. I had to buy a
radio at Best Buy.
>> Volkswagen Fox.
>> Yeah, Fox.
>> Mine was never that nice. Do do 1989
Volkswagen Fox.
>> Oh, there.
>> There it is. That the second one in.
That's my car, right? Same color and
everything.
>> This This burgundy one.
>> Yeah. $7,200. didn't even have a radio.
>> Rick Ames is pulling in in a $80,000
Jaguar.
>> How much was the salary for a case
officer back then?
>> Back then he was probably making it in
the high 50s.
>> 50s. Yeah.
>> How much is it now?
>> 150.
>> Okay. It's not that bad.
>> Mhm.
>> But you never home.
>> No.
>> No. But you know what though? I I don't
want to get too far a field, but you you
rais a good point here.
My first station chief told me I was
complaining about the money and he said,
"Oh, you just started overseas." He
said, ' There are a lot of GS-15
millionaires walk in the halls.
>> What's a GS?
>> GS15 is that 150 level
>> because you go overseas and you make
your 150, right? And you get post
differential 10%, 15%. And you get
danger pay, that's another 15%. And then
you get language pay. There's another 10
or 15%.
>> There's such a thing as danger pay.
>> Oh, there's lots of danger pay cuz you
tell me you're my boss and you say, uh,
you need to go to Yemen.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like, no, I'm going to go to London
like him. Right. How come I go to Yemen?
>> I go to Luxembourg.
>> Exactly. So they have to give you danger
pay.
>> Well, in only what altogether eight
months in in Pakistan, I came home and I
bought a house.
>> Wow.
>> I had so much money. I I joked that they
bring it to you in a wheelbarrow.
There's so much money that you can make
overseas.
>> Usually people never do it for the
money.
>> No, I never met ever in my life a CIA
officer who did it for the money. No.
And neither did I. You do it because
you're a patriot and you want to you
want to serve the country. You want to
you want to keep the American people
safe. But
>> are you a patriot when they come and
recruit you or you become one
afterwards?
>> Oh, no. No. You're you're patriotic when
they come to recruit you.
>> Oh, so they're they already analyzed
you.
>> Oh, yeah. They've already taken a look
at you. a good hard look.
>> Yeah.
>> Before they even come and approach you.
>> Yeah. Normally, yes. In my case, it was
different because
I had this professor who was actually a
CIA officer undercover as a professor. I
mean, he knew me. I had I had taken his
class for a good six months already. And
and um he was like, "Yeah, I think I
think you'll be a good fit. What do you
say?" And the truth was I was getting
married six six weeks after graduation
and I didn't have a job and so what am I
going to do like get a PhD and how do I
feed myself and my new wife you know so
what do I do
>> so I said sure
>> when you were in the CIA was that
something that they made you learn to
analyze people their psych
>> Oh yeah yeah yeah there's heavy um
training and and then my first
assignment was in the the psych the
psychology office it was the office of
leadership development Velment analysis.
Yeah. The the the office at the CIA that
my professor had founded was the office
that hired me.
>> You've known me only for 30 minutes. Can
you analyze me
>> a little bit?
>> I want to hear it.
>> Um,
I think that you are patriotic both
toward the United States and Armenia. I
think your politics are slightly right
of center.
Um, and we haven't talked about
politics.
>> Oh, a little bit. I can feel it.
>> I we we spoke about religion. That's
where you that's where you're picking
that up from.
>> I think religion is important to you. Um
and I think you're a true believer in
the American dream.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. For a couple of reasons. Uh we met
each other and within 15 seconds you
told me that you owned this business.
That's impressive. There are Americans
that have been here for eight
generations that don't own a business.
You've been here for how long? uh in the
US since 98
>> and you own a business
>> and you own beautiful artworks on your
walls.
>> That's the American dream. That's the
the American success story right there.
>> The only reason I said that is because
when you entered my business name and
you were confused.
>> I was confused. I know. But you see what
I mean?
>> People to think I'm snobby just
>> No, no, no. Of course not. That he just
announced it. Yeah. When I walked in.
No, no, that wasn't the case at all. But
just in the course of conversation, like
you and I could be talking about
baseball and you'll say something that
I'm going to have to file, you know, and
then when I get back to the office, I
would type it up and say, "By the way,
he mentioned, you know, this whatever it
is."
>> That's that's interesting because what
you're doing is also very important in
business.
>> Yeah. You know in business in the
business world we also analyze people we
deal with especially when you meet them
for the very first time
>> and you make a lot of decisions based on
the first time you meet an individual
you know yes you can meet with them
numerous times and that will also help
you to make a better decision but that
first impression that first you know
instinct
>> it is you know it's important let me let
me tell you a story after I left the CIA
I went to one of the big four uh
professional services firms deote in now
it's called Deote and um I made a friend
there uh who was a a young partner she
had come from Ernston Young they made
her a partner immediately she was only
there about four years and then she took
a partnership at Price Waterhouse
Coopers so we stayed in touch and when
my first book came out she called me and
said hey would you come to our partners
offsite and give them a
>> pep talk
>> and I said sure But like what am I going
to what am I going to tell 140 Price
Waterhouse Cooper's partners that they
don't already know. So I gave it real
thought.
So I told them this story.
I said, uh,
when I was serving in Pakistan,
we got word that there was a group of
mid-level al-Qaeda people who went to
the same Arab coffee shop every single
day at 10:00. They would go in, four of
them, and they would just sit and have
some coffee, sit there and talk, and
then they'd leave by 11, 11:30.
When I was in Pakistan, for operational
reasons, I grew a long bushy beard
and I wore shawwar kamis.
So,
right. So, I fit in and I had an an
Arabic uh language newspaper and I went
in. I knew they were coming at 10:00. So
I'd go at 9:30, sit there by myself with
my coffee reading the Arabic
>> newspaper
>> newspaper and I never said a word. So
they would come in and I noticed that
one of them kind of glanced at me.
>> Didn't stare at me or anything. He just
kind of glanced. Yeah. And I didn't
react. I didn't nod. I didn't you
nothing.
>> The next day they came in and he looked
at me and I'm sitting there reading the
paper and drinking my coffee. That went
for a week. The second week I'm sitting
there
and he comes in and he nods. So I nodded
back. That went on for another week.
The third week he says to me Salam. I
said walaykum salam.
And then finally one day he came in by
himself and I told him have a seat
please. Yeah have a seat. Sit with me.
We start chatting. Where are you from?
>> This is all in Arabic.
>> Arabic. And he says, "I'm from Egypt." I
said, "Oh, are you here with your
family?" "No." He said, "Uh, my wife is
in uh is in Cairo with our daughter." He
said, "Our daughter is nine, and I have
a 5-year-old son that I've never met."
His wife was pregnant when he came to
make jihad, he said.
So,
I asked him what his plans were and he
said, "I'd like to go back." He said,
"I'm tired of the fight. I just want to
go back and just be with my family and
live live a normal life." So, we talked
about that for a little bit and then I
invited him to lunch. We went to lunch
and we're sitting talking about his
family and we're talking about jihad and
and finally I said, "I like you. You're
a nice guy, but listen. I said, "Please
forgive me. I wasn't completely honest
with you. I'm actually not Lebanese."
And he said, "You have an accent."
>> Just the slightest accent.
The truth was my Arabic teachers were
Lebanese.
>> So that's how I learned it.
I said, "I'm actually American."
And he looks at me and I said,"More than
that?
I'm an American CIA officer."
And I said, ' And I noticed that you're
not running screaming from the room.
He said, "I'm willing to listen."
So I said, "You seem like a nice guy
that this jihad thing, it's not for
you." He said he was in Tora Bora
hiding in a cave and we fired a cruise
missile into the cave.
>> He was one of only two people who came
out of it alive. He called it the most
hideous explosion he had ever heard.
Hideous was the word that he used. And
when he came out, his ears were
bleeding. That's how bad it was. He said
he just wanted to go home. Did you open
up because he spoke about his family and
how he mentioned
>> it was all about the family.
>> As soon as he started talking about his
family,
>> you got him.
>> I knew I had him.
>> That's what at at the CIA we call the
operational vulnerability.
So
I said to him, "You don't need to stay
stay around here." He said, "Well, I I I
have nothing. I have no money. I have no
passport. I have no way to get home. I
said, 'I can take care of all of that
for you. He said, 'Well, what do you
want from me?
And I there was something very specific
that I wanted from him, which he gave
me.
>> Mhm.
>> So,
I worked with our Egyptian embassy
friends.
They made a passport for him. I bought
him the ticket home. I gave him a
substantial amount of money. How much?
>> No, they they wouldn't let me say.
>> Okay.
>> Six figures?
>> No, but for an Egyptian with a sixth
grade education,
>> it was a lot of money.
>> Enough money to live the rest of his
life.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Yeah.
>> But it was less than six figures.
>> Yeah. Not much less.
>> Got it.
>> But less. So, I took him to the airport
and I said, "Before you leave, I have to
ask you one question. Why did you allow
me to recruit you?
And without missing a beat, he said,
"Because I've been here five years and
you're the only person who ever asked me
about my family."
>> Mhm.
>> So, you touched his heart.
>> That was it. I treated him with respect.
>> Treated him like a human.
>> Like a human. So I'm I'm telling the
story to these 140 Price Waterhouse
Coopers partners and I said now you may
be wondering why is he telling us this
story?
It's because what I did and what you do
every day really aren't so different
because it's all about the relationship.
And that's what your argument is all the
time, Dad.
>> And I said, "Is it hard to just say,
"How was your kids's little league game
last weekend? Is your husband recovering
from that, you know, elbow surgery?
Where'd you go on vacation this year?"
Just have a little conversation.
Just show people a little bit of
interest in their mundane day-to-day
lives.
I said, "Listen, if I can get this guy
to commit treason,
against al-Qaeda.
You can win that contract at the
Department of Agriculture.
How hard is it?
And
it it struck a chord. I have a question.
Uh you worked with John Kerry, you said.
>> Have you ever worked with Adam Schiff?
>> No.
>> Because he was also on the the
>> he was on the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
>> Committee. Yeah.
>> One of the lead uh
>> uh congressional members on that
committee.
>> You never never worked with him at all.
>> I have a very strong dislike of Adam
Schiff.
>> Why? Because Adam Schiff
is really the antithesis of what liberal
democracy
really is. Adam Schiff never saw a war
that he didn't want to jump into with
both feet.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. He's been pro-war all the time.
>> All the time. He pretends to be this
liberal.
>> He's been in office since 2000. So
>> So Afghanistan, Iraq.
>> Mhm. That's right. Somalia,
>> Tunisia.
>> Sure.
>> Libya.
>> Yeah. Libya. Absolutely right.
>> Speaking of those uh North African
countries, can you pull up that video by
Have you I'm sure you've seen this video
by General Wesley Clark.
>> Oh, this is a famous video. Listen, I
love Wesley Clark.
>> You know him personally.
>> He's one of the very, very few people at
that level.
>> I said, "We're going to war with Iraq.
Why?" He said, "I don't know."
He said, "I guess they don't know what
else to do."
So, uh, I said, "Well, did they find
some information collect connecting
Saddam to Al Qaeda?" He said, "No, no."
He says, "There's nothing new that way.
They've just made the decision to go to
war with Iraq." He said, "I guess it's
like we don't know what to do about
terrorists, but we've got a good
military and we can take down
governments." And um he said, "I guess
if the only tool you have is a hammer,
every problem has to look like a nail."
So I came back to see him a few weeks
later and by that time we were bombing
in Afghanistan. I said, "Are we still
going to war with Iraq?" And he said,
"Oh, it's worse than that." He said, he
reached over on his desk, he picked up a
piece of paper. He said, "I just" He
said, "I just got this down from
upstairs," meaning the Secretary of
Defense's office today. And he said,
"This is a memo that describes how we're
going to take out
>> seven countries."
>> Every word that you said,
>> I I'll tell you a story. I've told it
before, but it it's important in this
context.
When I got back from from Pakistan, on
the strength of the capture of Auzu
Zubeda, I was promoted and named
executive assistant to the CIA's deputy
director for operations.
In that position, the executive
assistant positions, all the big monkeys
have at least one. You have access to
literally everything that the CIA is
doing around the world.
>> Wow.
>> Everything.
So
on my very first day, I was so excited.
I went up and I said, I go, "So what are
we doing?" And he said, "Actually, I
can't tell you until you go to security
and sign your secrecy agreements." And I
thought, "Oh, okay. Well, I'm at a
higher level now. They must be doing
some crazy stuff that, you know, they
can't tell me until I sign." Did you
have to take polygraph test
>> after pre prehire after 3 years and then
every 5 years for the rest of your
career?
>> You take a polygraph.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> And background investigations.
So I go to security. They had six
secrecy agreements laid out on a table.
They were waiting for me. So I signed
each one of the six. And I said to the
guy, I I knew the guy. We had served
together. I said, "So what's up?"
And he goes, "Well,